Add separate certificates section #433 (#6881)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/configuration/tls.md

Name | Description
:--- | :---
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the certificate's key file (PKCS \#8), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_password` | The key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node certificate chain (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root certificate authorities (CAs) (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
```

`plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_type` | The type of the keystore file, JKS or PKCS12/PFX. Optional. Default is JKS.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_filepath` | Path to the keystore file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_alias` | The alias name of the keystore. Optional. Default is the first alias.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_password` | The password for the keystore. Default is `changeit`.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_type` | The type of the truststore file, JKS or PKCS12/PFX. Default is JKS.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_filepath` | Path to the truststore file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_alias` | The alias name of the truststore. Optional. Default is all certificates.
`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_password` | The password for the truststore. Default is `changeit`.

## Separate client and server certificates for transport layer TLS

> By default, transport layer TLS certificates need to be configured as both client (`TLS Web Client Authentication`) and server (`TLS Web Server Authentication`) in the certificate's `Extended Key Usage` section, bacause the nodes using the TLS certificates take on the responsibility of serving and receiving the communication requests internally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, transport layer TLS certificates need to be configured as both client (`TLS Web Client Authentication`) and server (`TLS Web Server Authentication`) in the certificate's `Extended Key Usage` section, because the nodes using the TLS certificates take on the responsibility of serving and receiving the communication requests internally.
```

> If you want to use separate certificates as client and server,  add the `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` setting to `opensearch.yml`. Next, configure the settings outlined in the [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use separate certificates for client and server, add the `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` setting to `opensearch.yml`. Next, configure the settings outlined in the [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) sections.
```

> If you want to use separate certificates as client and server,  add  the `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` setting to `opensearch.yml`. Next, configure the settings outlined in the [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use separate certificates as client and server,  add the `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` setting to `opensearch.yml`. Next, configure the settings outlined in the [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) sections.
```

### Separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys

Name | Description
:--- | :---
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the server certificate's key file (PKCS \#8). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_password` | The server key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node server certificate chain (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the client certificate's key file (PKCS \#8). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_filepath` | The path to the client certificate's key file (PKCS \#8). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_password` | The client key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node client certificate chain (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemcert_filepath` | The path to the X.509 node client certificate chain (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | The path to the root CAs (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

### Separate client and server keystore and truststore files

Name | Description
:--- | :---
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_type` | The type of the keystore file, either `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Optional. Default is `JKS`.

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_filepath` | Path to the keystore file. Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_filepath` | The path to the keystore file. Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_password` | Truststore password. Default is `changeit`.

## Separate client and server certificates for transport layer TLS

> By default, transport layer TLS certificates need to be configured as both client (`TLS Web Client Authentication`) and server (`TLS Web Server Authentication`) in the certificate's `Extended Key Usage` section, as they take responsibility as server and client in internal communication between nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, transport layer TLS certificates need to be configured as both client (`TLS Web Client Authentication`) and server (`TLS Web Server Authentication`) in the certificate's `Extended Key Usage` section, because the certificates are responsible for the server's and client's internal communication between nodes.
```

Author: @Naarcha-AWS would it be a better explanation to say instead of:

```
-because the certificates are responsible for the server's and client's internal communication between nodes.

+bacause the nodes using the TLS certificates take on the responsibility of serving and receiving the communication requests internally.
```

> If you want to use separate certificates as client and server, you need to add `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` to `opensearch.yml`, then configure settings outlined in [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use separate certificates as client and server,  add  the `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` setting to `opensearch.yml`. Next, configure the settings outlined in the [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) sections.
```

### Separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys

Name | Description
:--- | :---

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the server certificate's key file (PKCS \#8), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the server certificate's key file (PKCS \#8). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_password` | Server key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemkey_password` | The server key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node server certificate chain (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node server certificate chain (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the client certificate's key file (PKCS \#8), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_filepath` | Path to the client certificate's key file (PKCS \#8). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_password` | Client key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemkey_password` | The client key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node client certificate chain (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemcert_filepath` | Path to the X.509 node client certificate chain (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.pemtrustedcas_filepath` | Path to the root CAs (PEM format). Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

### Separate client and server keystore and truststore files

Name | Description
:--- | :---

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_type` | The type of the keystore file, JKS or PKCS12/PFX. Optional. Default is JKS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_type` | The type of the keystore file, either `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Optional. Default is `JKS`.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_filepath` | Path to the keystore file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_filepath` | Path to the keystore file. Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.keystore_alias` | Alias name for server key. Optional. Default is the first alias.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.keystore_alias` | The alias name of the server key. Optional. Default is the first alias.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.keystore_alias` | Alias name for client key. Optional. Default is the first alias.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.keystore_alias` | The alias name for the client key. Optional. Default is the first alias.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.keystore_keypassword` | Keystore password for server. Default is `changeit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.keystore_keypassword` | The keystore password for the server. Default is `changeit`.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.keystore_keypassword` | Keystore password for client. Default is `changeit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.keystore_keypassword` | The keystore password for the client. Default is `changeit`.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.truststore_alias` | Alias name for server. Optional. Default is all certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.server.truststore_alias` | The alias name of the server. Optional. Default is all certificates.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.truststore_alias` | Alias name for client. Optional. Default is all certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.client.truststore_alias` | The alias name of the client. Optional. Default is all certificates.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_filepath` | Path to the truststore file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_filepath` | The path to the `truststore` file. Must be specified using a relative path under the `config` directory. Required.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_type` | The type of the truststore file, JKS or PKCS12/PFX. Default is JKS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_type` | The type of the `truststore` file, either `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Default is `JKS`.
```

> `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_password` | Truststore password. Default is `changeit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_password` | The `truststore` password. Default is `changeit`.
```

`plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_password` | Truststore password. Default is `changeit`.

## Separate client and server certificates for transport layer TLS

By default, transport layer TLS certificates need to be configured as both client (`TLS Web Client Authentication`) and server (`TLS Web Server Authentication`) in the certificate's `Extended Key Usage` section, as they take responsibility as server and client in internal communication between nodes.

> If you want to use separate certificates as client and server, you need to add following line to `opensearch.yml` and settings outlined in [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to use separate certificates as client and server, you need to add following line to `opensearch.yml` and settings outlined in [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files)
```
```suggestion
If you want to use separate client and server certificates, you need to add following line and settings to `opensearch.yml`. You can also find steps on creating [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files) by following the hotlinks.
```

Author: @scrawfor99 Thanks for the above, this part is a bit tricky, as main opensearch.yml line is common in both cases, and the two options that follow are different.

Do you think below is more clear

`If you want to use separate certificates as client and server, you need to add `plugins.security.ssl.transport.extended_key_usage_enabled: true` to `opensearch.yml`, then configure settings outlined in [separate client and server X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-x509-pem-certificates-and-pkcs-8-keys) or [separate client and server Keystore and truststore files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#separate-client-and-server-keystore-and-truststore-files)`
